# Piercing-the-Corporate-Landlord-Veil
## Sponsor: New York State Office of the Attorney General 

**Organization Information**: 

The Research Department in the Office of the New York State Attorney General (“OAG”) is seeking candidates for full-time Research positions. The Research Department is part of the Executive Division and works closely with senior staff to support the OAG's major initiatives, investigations, and policy development. This close-knit team has researched and written analytical reports garnering national attention, created and directed multi-million dollar grant programs, and supported several of the office’s major investigations.   

Employing over 1,700 people across New York State, the OAG is both the “People's Lawyer” and the State's chief legal officer. The OAG serves all New Yorkers in numerous legal and regulatory arenas, including protecting the rights of investors and consumers, coordinating state-wide criminal investigations, promoting economic and social justice, encouraging harm-reducing public health strategies, and preserving the State’s environment. The OAG also advises the Executive branch of State government and defends actions and proceedings on behalf of the State. 

**1. Issue/Challenge:** Piercing the Landlord Corporate Veil  Landlords often obfuscate their identity through purchasing individual buildings with individual corporations and Limited Liability Companies (LLCs). Even law-abiding landlords enact such practices to mitigate the financial risks of holding such valuable property. However, this practice makes locating a landlord’s entire portfolio or even the true owner of a single property quite difficult. However, with the use of the city’s plentiful buildings databases, we have found that landlords frequently use the same address for many of their building transactions, including purchases, mortgages, and registrations. Using this link, we can begin to pierce the landlord-created corporate veil and understand the full contours of some of city’s largest building owners. This heightened understanding of owners’ portfolios will enable OAG to strengthen its aggressive efforts to combat harmful landlord practices, such as tenant harassment, deed theft, bank fraud, and other harmful violations affecting tenants and homeowners.

**2. Project Scope:** Students will be asked to build a database (relational or graph) of all the buildings data in New York City (detailed in Data Sources & Availability) that can be queried by non-technical end users from a web-based portal or Tableau workbook. Users must be able to query the database by principal name, LLC/Corporate name, building address, or LLC/Corporate registration address. Results of such a query should include all buildings tied to those inputs and summary statistics (# of units, complaints, violations, fines, parties of most recent deed transfer, amount of mortgage debt, J-51 and 421-a tax exemptions and abatements, deregulated apartments, tenant harassment task force inspections, etc.) for each building within the results. The web-based portal should display summary statistics, allow for export of building-level details, export a timeline of events (purchases, mortgages, violations, etc.), and provide a map of the queried results.  
